hi I'm Harper James ahora I am the
founder and director of group 101 we
offer a range of printing here we've got
four Canon IPF 81,000 machines the
canons allow us to do all our fine art
printing we also do
we've got sublimation printing where we
set up a mobile photo studio and we we
do a direct quick print service there so
we've got a few sublimation printers
that print there on-site will then go
our Roland which is our XC 540 Pro our
one of our oldest machines and one of
our strongest the machine is now in its
sixth year and I can't fault it I can't
fault it one bit we've never had any
issues with ink any issues with color
gamut we've always used original inks we
kind of want to make sure that we're
doing our bit because we know Roland are
doing their bit with a fantastic bit of
kit so I would say that the machine has
definitely helped us expand our business
there's no doubt about it having this
machine has allowed us to open up so
many markets we we started off printing
on vinyl
we now print on banners we print on
clear vinyls we print on loads of cast
vinyls we do a lot of vehicle wrapping
with this machine we do a lot of print
cut as well it's probably the single
machine that's helped our business grow
I mean we have water base Canon IPF
machines but they're very very one
product type we only print one material
on those canvas and that's it this has
been such a versatile machine that we've
been able to use all kinds of material
it's so precision perfect you know you
you fail to get a job wrong with print
cut and it kind of it's worked well for
us we've done all kinds of things with
print cut clothing we've done food
labels we've done small labels for
people's businesses stickers to go on to
boxes
yeah all kinds you know we tried out
thousands of different materials from
thousands of different suppliers we can
whack it on to the Roland the Roland
does its self calibration we print a
kind of strip and it tells us what
settings this is going to work best on
set it on that and away you go your
print with our latex machine on the
other hand if it isn't loaded as a
profile we're going to struggle we are
going to struggle to get the colors on
it whereas with this any media you could
bring any bit any kind of vinyl in it
you could put any kind of canvas in it
any kind of banner the machine works its
magic and off you go it's printing the
colors are going to be great you know
you're not you don't have to worry we
tried a latex machine we have a latex
machine we've had it for approximately
four months now and I would say it's
probably the biggest mistake we made as
a business purchasing one selling points
of the machine were great that the inks
instantly drying that we can print
double-sided banners have we printed
double-sided banners not at all how many
vehicle wraps have we done straight off
the machine probably two so does it
warrant the money we pay for it probably
not so now we're stuck with it because
we've paid for it we can't really do
anything with it so to be honest with
you the machine sits there with white
vinyl rolled onto it and that is the
only thing it'll print we just have it
on printing white vinyl all day long so
it's just some money but would I buy
another latex no I don't think I would
would I buy another rolling yes I would
if I if I was gonna sum up the Roland I
would say the build quality is like a is
like a rolls-royce fantastic
everything about it greatly built it's
the machine that gives you confidence
you know you can come up to it in the
morning you can put a job on it and you
know it's going to print how you'll seen
it on your screen I think the rips the
Versa works software that comes with the
Roland is fantastic it's just it's so
intuitive you just you kind of know how
to use it I would say when you buy a
rolling machine you're not buying a
machine you're buying into a rolling
family I would call it you're buying
into this whole kind of kind of almost
like a select Club that's gonna support
you they're not just going to sell you a
machine and say there you go get on with
it there's so much support available you
can book courses you can speak to the
technical guys so yes and it's not just
about buying a machine you're buying the
whole kind of rolling experience
probably heard me say many times in the
film that I that I can't fault this
machine it's a it's everything we've
always wanted and what our plans for the
future
we've already got it booked in for the
new year we're up at sign master systems
head office as headquarters we are going
to be spending a day there we're gonna
try out the new XR 640 and no doubt
after a few beers Phil's going to sign
us up for a new XR 640 and you know have
a happy happy Roland future and you know
maybe in five or six years time you're
coming back to video s and I'm saying
exactly the same thing about the Exile
640 that I'm saying about the XC 540